oh hey I'm glad you're here in today's
video we're going to look at what's
really happening because you turn on the
news and you're going to see one thing
you'll see what's happening with the us
being downgraded and some will say it's
okay and others will say it's disastrous
but why don't we just look at the truth
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you we need to
understand what are the common
denominators and that's what we'll do
here today I'm going to show you what
Jerome Powell had to say we're going to
look at what the bankers have to say and
of course what's actually happening
inside the economy let's connect the
dots let's make sense of it let's begin
here we have it Powell says the FED is
not confident that it has done enough to
bring inflation down so you get that
Jerome Powell markets don't like that
but the real scenario was that the
markets ignored that and you can see UBS
strategists see far deeper Fed rate Cuts
than what the markets are pricing so in
fact they see nearly
3% of a rate cut coming in the next
little while starting in March so the
FED is saying one thing others are
suggesting that they're going to be
cutting rates and there are some as part
of that they're saying no they're going
to be cutting rates to a significant
degree and then we have the ECB directly
from the ECB they said you could read
this whole thing if you'd like but they
said we want to make quantitative easing
part of our like ongoing strategy so not
only will will they potentially be
cutting rates they're just going to be
printing money forever because that
doesn't generate any inflation oh no
this is what we're dealing with there is
such a mixed bag and how do we know
what's true how do we know what's
actually honest well we're going to dig
into it because when you look at the
history and I've seen it all you've got
to understand that this is something
that comes up repeatedly over and over
again more recently I've been working on
building a GPT to help corroborate all
the evidence that I've already got and
I've done my research for so many years
in fact I've been doing this for you
know well over a decade now and now I
have the AI to support what I've already
pulled in now you could see this time
and time again central banks devalue
your currency now that's not new I
didn't make that up but now we have more
evidence to reveal that they're planning
on changing something here in the next
little while and if you don't pay
attention you will be sideswiped by this
many have warned about a deflationary
scenario where you'd be able to access
assets on the cheap but I beg to differ
here we have it look interest payments
on the US debt record is now over $1
trillion on this now I've been talking
about a long time telling everybody that
this what happened not because I have a
crystal ball but because this is what
the government does they get into more
debt now you know that already right but
what do we realize out of all of this is
that they need to finance that how can
they do this well they have to go to the
bond market get money in this way they
need to do these auctions and during
this period of time they have to be
depending on how much is out there they
have to be uh you know essentially
making sure that there's buyers but when
there are no buyers there's the lender
of Last Resort the buyer of Last Resort
and that is the Federal Reserve they
will monetize the debt and at the rate
that we're seeing right now just the
amount of debt that the US is in they're
financing that at such a high level we
haven't seen this in a while and it's a
trillion dollars worth so of course
there's a problem we see these dots
connecting do you it's interesting right
help me out give a thumbs up on this
video and I do appreciate that very much
look here here's why Moody's negative Us
credit Outlook matters of course they
got downgraded in terms of you know
they're they're being put on a watch
list essentially oh no but they still
have a AAA it doesn't matter it really
doesn't now you know the bond market
might not like it and so on but let's be
honest the whole world World Sees at
this time sees the us as the safe haven
the US dollar and many other currencies
are there and we see the bricks
countries that are clearly trying to
change the tune but overwhelmingly the
US dollar is still the one now that
number of uh how you know the whole
world is using the US dollars a reserve
that's been declining it's now actually
58% in total but they you know the
number two spot is is like way way down
the list so we know that the US is still
certainly uh having that Monopoly there
and everybody wants the dollars and it's
you know something that you could pull
out in basically any country and it's
valid and valuable but things are
changing us Imports in January to
September 2023 percentage change from a
year earlier does this not
signal um you know a crisis look okay
bicycles happen to be one that's 40% but
just look all the way down there it's
not just that Footwear apparel musical
instruments toys and games TVs and
monitors down 40 30
20% year-over-year
so we can see that there is a
significant decline in what the consumer
is willing to buy perhaps an over
production in the first place and this
is why I love looking at Imports exports
and Freight in general I want to know
know what's happening in the economy and
these are incredible ways to look at it
credit card delinquencies have surged as
well you could see this right now 90
days are more delinquent there's
different you know you get the 30 days
the 60 and and the 90 obviously the 90
is a little bit more of a Telltale sign
because they just can't do it and what
happens here well they start to go back
to their uh credit card company's Visa
Mastercard and they say well you know
what we can't pay back we've got to be
able to
renegotiate we got to slash this slash
that and is it through bankruptcy these
are big issues interest rates they
increase you suddenly encounter a
problem and so you could have this thing
whole thing spiral down down down where
there's Mass delinquencies where there's
layoffs left right and Center where we
have people that can't pay their bills
and everybody's living in a t City and
everybody is going through a crisis it's
like the you know 1929 is the Great
Depression all over again or or the
Central Bank does something they realize
there's a lot of debt out there that the
US cannot finance that debt and so we
have to take action right it's an
emergency it's a crisis so we start to
cut interest rates so we start to print
money and so we start to devalue your
currency and in doing so maybe they kind
of Kick the Can down the road but what's
more important than that it's that they
create a bigger divide in between the
rich and the poor and that my friends is
the ultimate goal of the central Bankers
I have looked into this for so long and
this is the ultimate tool utilizing the
printing press bringing interest rates
down to Rock Bottom this time around
they have 5 and a half% five and a
quarter to 5 and a half percent of
cushion to use and they're going to use
it and we know that it's only a matter
of time before they start to cut those
interest rates and before they start to
devalue your currency like you have
never seen before the word is not
deflation my friends the worry is much
more inflation already crushing people
and it's going to get worse shipping
shifts from jackpots to job Cuts after a
$364 billion boom right the shipping
industry all these companies doing so
well that has turned around the Imports
the exports that's clear but the layoffs
as well and the biggest company MEK I
believe it was they got rid of 10% or
they fired 10,000 people I covered in a
recent video but it's been big and
that's just one company but you can see
how other things are affecting it as
well drought saps the Panama Canal
disrupting global trade we rely on these
aspects of you know everything look at
the Justin Time type of uh systems that
we've been operating and now we've got
this as well so one by one these things
tend to happen this is just showing us
the Dallas fed manufacturing uh business
activity and it's been down down every
month every single month it's been down
just showing us overall we have economic
indicators that are sluggish that are
you know weak and that are ultimately
showing contraction so what can we do in
these circumstances I know it's
difficult to look at this and start to
think to yourself um that you know
there's no hope well that's not true
right we need to understand this at a
deeper level and know that even the
Great Depression we made our way out of
that there was massive growth after but
we've got to pay attention to something
each and every cycle there's a bigger
divide in between the rich and the poor
you look at this from let's say the 50s
up until today that has been very
distinct and very clear so we want to
make sure that we take advantage
wherever it is that we can now I have
what I have uh you know the zoom classes
the finance Fridays uh that we have our
our money GPS Finance live class this is
something I do I break down information
for people on a very specific level I do
a presentation last about half an hour
to an hour we go through everything you
need to know in depth then we do a Q&A I
show you different softwares I show you
different you know different
presentations that I have available at
that time I also am now going to be
including the AI so the AI is not
something we would just put all of our
faith into no it's to give us additional
information so that we can make better
investment choices right and so that's
part of this the link will be in the
description for that I was calling it
The Mentor ship it has morphed into two
separate days where Friday is the
finance and economy and Sunday is where
we talk about business we talk about uh
selling products online because we want
the currency um the currency you know
diversification and and geographical
diversification of ourselves and so on
this is what I'm calling now uh by the
way the fire your financial advisor um
which is pretty cool because it's you
know it's tweaking is something that's
taken me about six hours so far to put
together as of this
recording and it gives us um a way to
look at current information based on
past information comparing the two and
sort of giving us an idea of where um
sectors the best sectors and the best
stocks are at this time given the
circumstances and so yes we know that
and I have that I've read for so many
years but we also want to use use the AI
wherever we can to pull data and sort of
say okay yeah I see what it's saying and
I could I could see that anyway this is
one of the reports that it pulled up if
you're interested anyway Link in the
description you'll get that for yourself
comment of the day here we go thank you
thank you for your comment in 1982 I was
a college uh I was in college and ran
for my state legisl legislature as a
Libertarian no one wanted to hear a
young kid with nothing more than a
couple of intro courses in economics and
finance talk about how evil debt was and
so going on essentially saying you know
eventually uh we would get to this day
where the Reckoning would be felt but
unfortunately it took a very long time
and here we are this is the unfortunate
truth about the world that we live in
right now that it takes a long time to
move through these Cycles but we want to
be on the right side of that and so I
hope that everybody will take action
today as best they can I want to thank
you for being here if you appreciate
this information hit that thumbs up
button and I'll see you tomorrow take
care